.TH "TazLiTo flavor" "1" "17.02.2016"
.SH NAME
Tazlito flavor file (\fB.flavor\fR).
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIname\fB.flavor\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
A \fB.flavor\fR is a small file contains information needed to (re)manufacture
a custom LiveCD of SliTaz.
.PP
.IB flavor .flavor
file is a cpio.gzip archive that contains next files inside:
.TP
.IB flavor .receipt
File describing the flavor using the variables:
.Bl -bullet
.It
FLAVOR: the flavor name
.It
SHORT_DESC: short description
.It
VERSION: free format
.It
MAINTAINER: e-mail address of the flavor maintainer
.It
FRUGAL_RAM: minimum RAM required (optional)
.It
ROOTFS_SIZE: size of rootfs.gz decompressed into RAM (optional)
.It
INITRAMFS_SIZE: size of rootfs.gz on the CD-ROM (optional)
.It
ISO_SIZE: size of CD-ROM (optional)
.It
ROOTFS_SELECTION: optional, see \fBMeta flavor below\fR.
.El
Receipt may contain function \fIcustom_rules()\fR executed after installing all
packages, adding custom rootfs files, and executing \fIdistro.sh\fR script.
.TP
.IB flavor .desc
File describing the flavor (the most of the information is taken from the
receipt): flavor name, description, version, maintainer e-mail, Live CD RAM
size, build date, number of the packages, rootFS size, initRAMFS size, ISO
image size.
.TP
.IB flavor .pkglist
List of packages without specifying the version (tazlito uses the latest
available). This file is missing if ROOTFS_SELECTION exists in the receipt.
.TP
.IB flavor .nonfree
Optional list of non-free packages.
.TP
.IB flavor -distro.sh
Optional script executed after installing all packages and adding custom rootfs
files to perform tasks in the rootfs before compression. Script executed with
argument $DISTRO defined in the tazlito.conf(5).
.TP
.IB flavor .mirrors
Optional file containing the list of undigest (unofficial) mirrors to be added
to include personal packages.
.TP
.IB flavor .rootfs
Optional cpio.gzip archive containing the root filesystem tree (so it should
contain all the necessary top-level directories such as bin, etc, usr...).
Files contained in this archive will be directly extracted to the root
filesystem of the prepared flavor (configuration files usually).
.TP
.IB flavor .rootcd
Optional cpio.gzip archive that files and folders will be directly extracted to
the root of the CD-ROM.
.SH WORKING WITH FLAVORS
.SS Manufacture a flavor
You can choose the flavor to (re)manufacture from among those available:
.nf
$ tazlito list-flavors
.fi
.B List of flavors
.TS
l r r l.
\fBName\fR	\fBISO\fR	\fBRootfs\fR	\fBDescription\fR
_
base	12.0M	21.0M	Minimal set of packages to boot
core-4in1	42.0M	152.4M	SliTaz core system with justX and base alternatives
core	31.5M	104.6M	SliTaz core system
eeepc	31.2M	105.4M	SliTaz eeepc system
justX	16.1M	51.2M	SliTaz with a minimal X environment
.TE
.PP
We will start by remanufacturing the
.I eeepc
flavor which uses 105.4M of RAM and has a CD-ROM size of 31.2M:
.nf
# tazlito clean-distro
# tazlito get-flavor \fIeeepc\fR
# tazlito gen-distro
.fi
.SS Create a flavor
To create a flavor, you must:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Either create an ISO image with
.B tazlito gen-distro
and then create a flavor file with
.B tazlito gen-flavor
.It
Either directly create the tree structure that defines the flavor (see
.BR "tazlito extract-flavor" )
and then create the flavor with
.B tazlito pack-flavor
.It
Either use the
.B online builder
http://pizza.slitaz.org/
.El
.SS Post a flavor
Because a
.I .flavor
file contains just a few KB, it can be easily sent via the
mailing list
.RI ( http://www.slitaz.org/en/mailing-list.php ).
.PP
The results of
.B tazlito extract-flavor
can also be put in mercurial
.RI ( http://hg.slitaz.org/flavors ).
This method is preferred because the tree will be directly visible with the
mercurial web interface
.RI ( http://hg.slitaz.org/flavors/file/tip ).
.PP
This tree includes:
.Bl -bullet
.It
A \fBreceipt\fR file describing the flavor thanks to the variables:
.Bl -bullet
.It
FLAVOR: The flavor name.
.It
SHORT_DESC: Short description.
.It
VERSION: Free format.
.It
MAINTAINER: Email address of maintainer.
.It
FRUGAL_RAM: Minimum RAM required (optional).
.It
ROOTFS_SIZE: Size of rootfs.gz decompressed into RAM (optional).
.It
INITRAMFS_SIZE: Size of rootfs.gz on the CD-ROM (optional).
.It
ISO_SIZE: Size of CD-ROM (optional).
.It
ROOTFS_SELECTION: Optional, see \fBMeta flavor\fR below.
.El
.It
The file \fBpackages.list\fR containing the list of packages without specifying
the version (tazlito uses the latest available). This file is missing if
ROOTFS_SELECTION exists in the receipt.
.It
The optional \fBmirrors\fR file containing the list of unofficial mirrors
(undigest) to be added to include personal packages.
.It
The optional directory \fBrootfs\fR containing the tree to add to the root
filesystem rootfs.gz (configuration files usually).
.It
The optional directory \fBrootcd\fR containing the tree to add to the root of
the CD-ROM.
.El
.SS Adapt a flavor
It is often easier to modify an existing flavor than to create one from
scratch. To adapt the eeepc flavor for example:
.nf
# tazpkg get-install mercurial
# cd /home/slitaz
# hg clone http://hg.slitaz.org/flavors
# cd flavors
# cp -a \fIeeepc myslitaz\fR
.fi
Files in \fImyslitaz\fR can then be changed, and:
.nf
# tazlito pack-flavor \fImyslitaz\fR
.fi
Will simply create the new flavor.
.PP
Tip: you can skip mercurial installation by extracting a flavor. Using the
previous example:
.nf
# tazlito get-flavor \fIeeepc\fR
# tazlito extract-flavor \fIeeepc.flavor\fR
# cd /home/slitaz/flavors
# cp -a \fIeeepc myslitaz\fR
.fi
.SS Meta flavor
A meta flavor contains several flavors like nested Russian dolls. The flavor
will be launched at startup according to the amount of RAM available. The
ROOTFS_SELECTION variable defines the minimum RAM and corresponding flavor
parameters, example
.RI ( http://hg.slitaz.org/flavors/file/tip/core-4in1/receipt ):
.nf
ROOTFS_SELECTION="160M core 96M justX 32M base"
.fi
A meta flavor doesn't contain a list of packages (\fIpackages.list\fR). SliTaz
kernels prior to 2.6.30 do not support meta flavors.
.SH SEE ALSO
tazlito(1), tazlito.conf(5).
