.TH "tazlito.conf" "5" "17 Feb 2016"
.SH NAME
tazlito.conf \(em configuration for Tazlito
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tazlito.conf
.SH DESCRIPTON
tazlito(1) uses this configuration file to work. If current directory contains
.IR tazlito.conf ,
it will be used, otherwise system-wide file
.I /etc/tazlito/tazlito.conf
will be used.
.PP
It have shell script syntax, so empty lines and lines starting with \(lq#\(rq
are ignored.
.SH VARIABLES
.TP
.B SLITAZ_VERSION
SliTaz version to use for ISO name and files path.
.sp
Default value is the current SliTaz system version (determined by
.I /etc/slitaz-release
file content), for example, \(lq5.0\(rq.
.TP
.B ISO_NAME
Name of the ISO image to generate.
.sp
Default value is
.RI \(lqslitaz- SLITAZ_VERSION \(rq
(is \(lqslitaz-5.0\(rq).
.TP
.B VOLUM_NAME
ISO image volume name.
.sp
Default value is \(lqSliTaz LiveCD\(rq.
.TP
.B PREPARED
Name of the preparer.
.sp
Default value is the login name of the user prepared the ISO (determined by the
content of the environment variable
.IR USER ),
for example \(lqtux\(rq.
.TP
.B WORK_DIR
Tazlito working directory containing flavors, distro and packages files.
.sp
Default value is
.RI \(lq/home/slitaz/ SLITAZ_VERSION \(rq
(is \(lq/home/slitaz/5.0\(rq).
.TP
.B PACKAGES_REPOSITORY
Path to the packages repository.
.sp
Default value is
.RI \(lq WORK_DIR /packages\(rq,
(is \(lq/home/slitaz/5.0/packages\(rq).
.TP
.B DISTRO
Path to the distro tree to gen-distro from a list of packages.
.sp
Default value is
.RI \(lq WORK_DIR /distro\(rq
(is \(lq/home/slitaz/5.0/distro\(rq).
.TP
.B FLAVORS_REPOSITORY
Path to the Live CD flavors files ( http://hg.slitaz.org/flavors ).
.sp
Default value is
.RI \(lq WORK_DIR /flavors\(rq
(is \(lq/home/slitaz/5.0/flavors\(rq).
.TP
.B ADDFILES
Path to the directory containing additional files to copy into the rootfs and
rootcd of the Live CD.
.sp
Default value is
.RI \(lq DISTRO /addfiles\(rq
(is \(lq/home/slitaz/5.0/distro/addfiles\(rq).
.TP
.B QEMU_OPTS
QEMU emulator options for the tazlito command \(lqemu-iso\(rq.
.sp
Default value is \(lq-m 256\(rq. See the QEMU documentation for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
tazlito(1), flavor(5)
