.TH TazLiTo "1" "29.01.2016"
.SH NAME
Tazlito \(em SliTaz Live Tool.
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.RI "tazlito [" command "] [" list | iso | flavor "] [" dir ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tazlito is a small utility to extract a Live CD, rebuild the ISO image and
regenerate the root filesystem of the Live CD. Tazlito can also generate a
distribution from a list of packages previously downloaded. Tazlito uses the
configuration file
.IR tazlito.conf (5).
.PP
Tazlito installed by default on SliTaz and installed/successfully tested on
Debian GNU/Linux. You will find additional information about creating a LiveCD
in the Handbook.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS usage
Display a summary of available commands with a short description.
.nf
$ tazlito usage
.fi
.SS stats
Display the configuration variables, the paths to the various files and
directories, and information on the ISO image.
.nf
$ tazlito stats
.fi
.SS list-addfiles
Display the list of additional files in the rootfs.
.nf
$ tazlito list-addfiles
.fi
.SS gen-config
Generate a configuration file ready to be edited.
.PP
By default the file is created in the current directory, but can be in another
directory if specified via the command line.
.nf
$ tazlito gen-config
$ tazlito gen-config \fI/path/to/distro\fR
.fi
.SS configure
Configure the system configuration file or one found in the current directory.
.PP
You will be asked for ISO name, volume name, paths to packages repository and
to distro.
.nf
# tazlito configure
.fi
.SS gen-iso
Generate a new Live CD image following modifications and additions to the root
filesystem of the CD-ROM.
.PP
To function, this command needs a directory containing the distro-tree of the
Live system. This tree can easily be built with the
.B extract-distro
command, modified and rebuilt via:
.nf
# tazlito gen-iso
.fi
.SS gen-initiso
The same as
.BR gen-iso ,
but it rebuilds the initramfs compressed system prior.
.PP
The initramfs contains the root filesystem and must be rebuilt if modified.
.nf
# tazlito gen-initiso
.fi
.SS list-flavors
Download (if necessary) and display a list of the different flavors available.
.PP
You can force the download with the
.I --recharge
option.
.nf
$ tazlito list-flavors
# tazlito list-flavors --recharge
.fi
.SS get-flavor
Download (if necessary) and prepares the files for
.B gen-distro
to generate an ISO image.
.PP
Option
.I --noup
can be used to skip updating flavor (see
.B upgrade-flavor
command).
.nf
# tazlito get-flavor \fIcore\fR
.fi
.SS show-flavor
Display the description of the flavor and its size after regeneration.
.PP
The options
.IR --brief " and " --noheader
reduce the output displayed.
.nf
$ tazlito show-flavor \fIbase\fR
$ tazlito show-flavor \fIjustx\fR --brief
$ tazlito show-flavor \fIcore\fR --brief --noheader
.fi
.SS gen-flavor
Create a description file of a new flavor from the results of generating a
distro
.RB ( gen-distro ).
The
.I .flavor
file can then be sent to slitaz.org.
.nf
# tazlito gen-flavor \fInew-flavor\fR
.fi
.SS gen-liveflavor
Create a description file of a new flavor from the results of generating a
distro based on the current system.
.PP
The
.I --help
option provides more information.
.nf
# tazlito gen-liveflavor --help
# tazlito gen-liveflavor \fIflavor-name\fR
# tazlito gen-liveflavor \fIflavor-name flavor-patch-file\fR
.fi
Format of the flavor-patch-file:
.TS
c l.
\fBcode\fR	\fBdata\fR
_
@	flavor description
+	package to add
-	package to remove
!	non-free package to add
?	display message
.TE
Example:
.nf
@ Developer tools for SliTaz maintainers
+ slitaz-toolchain
+ mercurial
.fi
.SS iso2flavor
Create a flavor file from the ISO image.
.nf
# tazlito iso2flavor \fIslitaz-cooking.iso mycooking\fR
.fi
.SS upgrade-flavor
Refresh a flavor description file. Sizes and actual number of packages will be
re-calculated. List of unknown packages will be displayed if any, as well as
list of important packages missed in the flavor (like
.BR syslinux " or " linux ).
Packages versions (presented in the legacy flavor format) will be stripped from
the flavor package list.
.nf
# tazlito upgrade-flavor \fIcore\fR
.fi
.SS extract-flavor
Convert a flavor into an easily modifiable tree structure. Path to the
extracted flavors repository specified by variable
.I FLAVORS_REPOSITORY
in the tazlito.conf(5) (by default
.IR /home/slitaz/cooking/flavors ).
.PP
This repository can be managed with mercurial: http://hg.slitaz.org/flavors .
.nf
# tazlito extract-flavor \fIcore\fR
.fi
.SS pack-flavor
Convert a tree structure, extracted by
.B extract-flavor
into a flavor file
.RI ( .flavor ).
.nf
# tazlito pack-flavor \fIcore\fR
.fi
Execute this command after changing existing flavor, or after preparing new
flavor. File
.I packages.list
inside flavor tree structure can contain include directive at the beginning,
for example:
.nf
@include \fIjustx\fR
.fi
to include all the packages listed in the
.I justx
flavor.
.SS extract-distro
Extract an ISO image from the Live CD to rebuild the structure of the root
CD-ROM and system. It is then possible to make the desired changes or additions
and rebuild the ISO image via
.BR gen-iso " or " gen-initiso .
.PP
ISO image is extracted by default to the path specified by variable
.I DISTRO
in the tazlito.conf(5). Desired path may be specified in the second argument.
.nf
# tazlito extract-distro \fI/tmp/slitaz-cooking.iso\fR
# tazlito extract-distro \fI/tmp/slitaz-cooking.iso\fR \fI/tmp/extracted\fR
.fi
.SS gen-distro
Generate the distro-tree and an ISO image via a list of packages.
.PP
To function, this command needs a list of packages and other files provided by
command
.BR get-flavor .
List is expected to be the file
.I distro-packages.list
in the current directory, or can be specified in the command argument.
If package list not given, new list
.I distro-packages.list
will be re-created in the current directory using all currently installed
packages.
.PP
If one uses the Live CD, the options
.IR --cdrom " and " --iso=
allows the regeneration of packages that place files in
.I /boot
without being obliged to download them and recovers the additional files of the
Live CD.
.PP
The path to the various directories are configured in the tazlito.conf(5)
and packages can be downloaded from the SliTaz mirrors or generated by
Cookutils.
.nf
# tazlito gen-distro
# tazlito gen-distro --cdrom
# tazlito gen-distro --iso=\fIslitaz.iso\fR
# tazlito gen-distro \fIpackage-list\fR
.fi
.SS clean-distro
Remove all files generated or extracts of the structure of the LiveCD.
.nf
# tazlito clean-distro
.fi
.SS check-distro
Verify few configuration files in the generated rootfs
.RI ( /etc/slitaz-release ", " /var/lib/tazpkg/mirror ,
.IR /boot/isolinux/isolinux.cfg ).
.PP
.B TODO:
Remove this function. First two files are maintained by tazpkg while it runs on
rootfs, while last one file should be maintained by tazlito itself.
.nf
# tazlito check-distro
.fi
.SS writeiso
Write the current filesystem to a cpio archive
.RI ( rootfs.gz )
and then generate a bootable ISO image. Writeiso can be used in a HD install or
in live mode and will also archive your current
.I /home
directory.
.PP
This command lets you easily remaster and build your own Live CD image, just
boot, modify any files, and then:
.nf
# tazlito writeiso [gzip|lzma|none]
# tazlito writeiso gzip
# tazlito writeiso gzip \fIimage-name\fR
.fi
.SS repack
Recompress the rootfs with the best possible compression.
.nf
# tazlito repack \fIslitaz.iso\fR
.fi
.SS merge
Combine several flavors like nested Russian dolls. Each rootfs is a subset of
the previous. The first rootfs is extracted from the ISO image used in the
third argument. The flavor will then be chosen to launch at startup according
to the amount of RAM available.
.nf
# tazlito merge \fI160M slitaz-core.iso 96M rootfs-justx.gz 32M rootfs-base.gz\fR
.fi
.SS build-loram
Create an ISO image flavor for low RAM systems from a SliTaz ISO image. You can
build a flavor with
.I /
always in RAM or where
.I /
resides on the CD-ROM:
.nf
# tazlito build-loram \fIslitaz.iso loram.iso\fR
# tazlito build-loram \fIslitaz.iso loram-cdrom.iso\fR cdrom
.fi
Third argument can be one of the:
.TP
.I cdrom
Move rootfs to squashfs filesystem(s) to the CD-ROM writeable with
aufs/overlayfs. These squashfs may be loaded in RAM at boot time. Rootfs are also
copied to CD-ROM for tiny ramsize systems. Meta flavors are converted to normal
flavors.
.TP
.I smallcdrom
TODO.
.TP
.I http
Create http bootstrap to load and remove loram_cdrom. Meta flavors are converted
to normal flavors.
.TP
.I ram
Move rootfs to a squashfs filesystem into the initramfs writeable with
aufs/overlayfs. Meta flavor selection sizes are updated.
.SS emu-iso
Use the QEMU emulator to start and run SliTaz.
.PP
QEMU is used to test the newly built ISO image without burning to a CD-ROM or
booting into frugal mode.
.nf
# tazlito emu-iso
# tazlito emu-iso path/to/image.iso
.fi
.SS burn-iso
Burn an ISO image guessing the CD-ROM device and its speed.
.PP
The default ISO image is the one located in the current configuration file, but
it's possible to specify a different image via the command line:
.nf
# tazlito burn-iso
# tazlito burn-iso \fIslitaz-hacked.iso\fR
.fi
.SH LICENSE
Tazlito is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.
.PP
Tazlito is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.BR "without any warranty" ;
without even the implied warranty of
.BR merchantability " or " "fitness for a particular purpose" .
See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.SH AUTHORS
Christophe Lincoln <pankso@slitaz.org>
.br
Pascal Bellard <pascal.bellard@ads-lu.com>
.br
Paul Issott <paul@slitaz.org>
.br
Eric Joseph-Alexandre <erjo@slitaz.org>
.br
Claudinei Pereira <claudinei@slitaz.org>
.br
Aleksej Bobylev <al.bobylev@gmail.com>
.SH MAINTAINERS
Christophe Lincoln <pankso@slitaz.org>
.br
Pascal Bellard <pascal.bellard@slitaz.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
tazlito.conf(5), flavor(5).
